---
layout: post
title: First Blog Post
subtitle: Lab 1
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
tags: [Blog]
comments: true
mathjax: true
author: Aarav Amin
---

{: .box-success}
This is a blog post to explain my thought process behind my answers for Lab #1

## Day #1
I loaded the csv file into a digimon folder. I started to think about how to answer questions 1 and 2. Question 1 asks you to find the average HP of all digimon. My first instinct was to add all the hps together and find a way to divide by the amount of digimon. Maybe also something that takes the number of digimon and stores it in a variable? For question 2, I'm thinking a for loop that adds one to a count every time it finds something that matches the value in the attribute submitted. Definitely a function with 2 parameters.

## Day #2
Wrote some preliminary code for question 1 using the ideas I explained on Day 1. I spent a whole day playing around with my code, because it wasn't running. When I added checks along the script, none of them printed. I struggled to figure out what was happening until finally I discovered that my new computer didn't have auto save on. 

## Day #3
I got my code from Day 1 to work, but figured out that I could make it easier by using the "len()" function. I also completed Question 2 using relatively the same ideas I outlined in the beginning. I got the correct answer based on the example given on the question. Began to think about Question 3, but I'm stumped on how to do it.

## Day #4
I found a way to solve Question 3, but it takes a lot of time to run properly. I basically try every single combination, using 3 for loops to cycle through the digimon list and check if they fit the parameters. Then I print all of those combos. I had a lot of trouble with parenthesis from all the for loops, and basically had to redo the whole thing, due to so many parenthesis being out of place. The question asks you to find "a team" not all the teams so I added a random function to get a random team from the list of all possible teams. I used https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_for_loops.asp to think about how I might be able to use a for loop to answer question 3.
