---
layout: post
title: Third Blog Post
subtitle: "Lab #2"
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
tags: [Blog]
comments: true
mathjax: true
author: Aarav Amin
---
{: .box-success}
This is a blog post to show my thoughts behind Lab #2

# Lab #2: World Bank API


## Choosing Indicators

I am doing a unit in history on the environmentalist and climate movements and I thought it might be interesting to try and get data to determine what some of the cause of CO2 emissions might be. I choose Electricity Production from Coal Sources and Literacy Rate in addition to the three that were included in the start. The former is pretty self explanatory, but I choose the latter, Literacy Rate, because I thought it would be very interesting to see if there is some correlation due educated people generally being more aware of climate change.

However, I didn't realize that there was not sufficient data for CO2 Emissions, Literacy Rate, and Electricity from Coal Sources for most countries I picked. This highlights a shortcoming of the API.

I chose to look at only recent years, 2023-2015, because the climate movement has become more popular in those years and I chose countries from around the world: Western Europe, West Africa, East Asia, North America, and the Middle East to try to get a diverse look.

## Bug fixing

I received quite a lot of null data that was messing with my code. I was able to fix this using code such as:

if entry["value"] is not None:

When writing into the csv, the code writes "None" attributes as blank.


## Observations

Because of the lack of data I was able to retrieve from the API I was unable to see many correlations. However, there did seem to be a positive correlation between Literacy Rate, GDP per capita, and Life Expectancy

## Next Steps


- Task 4 coming soon (Completed now!)

- I think due to a lack of data, when I attempt Task #4 I will have to try different indicators.

# Task 4 (Separate Section Due to Number of Changes)

## Changes

- I still wanted to focus on the environment in my data, so in addition to Life Expectancy, GDP per Capita, and Total Population, I added agricultural land and forest area. I did this to try and get at a more specific cause of CO2 emission, deforestation. I wanted to see how different indicators affected total forest area. A lot of times, deforestation occurs to make room for agricultural land, so I included that indicator as well. 

- I also thought that there only being 5 countries was too small to get accurate p-values so I added 5 more. I switched up some of the countries to ensure countries that would report data. My 10 countries were:
    United States (USA),  
    Brazil (BRA),  
    China (CHN),  
    India (IND),  
    South Africa (ZAF),  
    Germany (DEU),  
    Japan (JPN),  
    Russia (RUS),  
    Australia (AUS),  
    Mexico (MEX),  

## Results

After getting p-values for all my columns I found that some columns had correlation, but most didn't. Here is my result:

P-value between Life Expectancy and GDP Per Capita: 0.015257464902880935  
P-value between Life Expectancy and Total Population: 0.7455378459751536  
P-value between Life Expectancy and Forest Area: 0.4086928566896675  
P-value between Life Expectancy and Agricultural Land: 0.18020375175281034  
P-value between GDP Per Capita and Total Population: 0.2748037519595663  
P-value between GDP Per Capita and Forest Area: 0.9336670957419315  
P-value between GDP Per Capita and Agricultural Land: 0.5675191609740227  
P-value between Total Population and Forest Area: 0.42610826393416756  
P-value between Total Population and Agricultural Land: 0.3843799893086657  
P-value between Forest Area and Agricultural Land: 0.0006717161505616076  

A P-value < 0.05 shows strong correlation, and this occurred in only 2 relationships: Life Expectancy and GDP Per Capita and Forest Area and Agricultural Land. 

Since my goal is to determine things that cause climate change, the relationship between Forest Area and Agricultural Land is more interesting. I could see two reasons their relationship would be significant. Either my hypothesis that Forest Area is being removed to make way for Agricultural land is true (negative correlation) **OR** the more Forest Area a country has, the more it has room for Agricultural Land. Either way, we can tell that Forest Area is often used for Agricultural Land, and with that usually comes deforestation.

I do want to also point out some of the statistically **insignificant** correlations I found. 

- Unlike what I had thought originally, more population does not correlate to less forest area. I had thought this originally because you need room for more people. On second thought though, the US for example has a very large population, by due to its large land area, it still has a high percentage of forest area.

- There is no correlation between GDP and Forest area/agricultural land. I had thought more developed countries (countries usually with higher GDP) would use more Forest Area, and would have a higher percentage of land used for agriculture. But this was not the case.

## Bug fixing

I was having a lot of trouble producing an api key. I figured out that there were two issues, I was using "apikey" instead of "api_key" and I was using the wrong ssl version. I was using "Libressl" instead of Openssl. I couldn't find much about how to fix this issue on the web, so I did use ChatGPT to help me fix this issue. For the api key issue, I reviewed the raw JSON response to find my api key and realized that the issue occurred because the variable was misnamed.

